README.md, before:

# minidisc-ffwd: friendly fork, wip development

A friendly fork of `linux-minidisc` to more freely experiment
with things with less friction while eventually getting most
changes merged back into the upstream repository.

[Upstream](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Upstream_(software_development)) repos and relationships:

```
    (o) Original Upstream Repo ("upstream")
     |  https://github.com/linux-minidisc/linux-minidisc
     |
    (o) NetMD fixes by vuori (upstream PR#62)
     |  https://github.com/vuori/linux-minidisc
     |
    (o) Downstream repo w/ fixes, used by Platium MD (upstream PR#82)
     |  https://github.com/gavinbenda/linux-minidisc
     |
  > (o) This Repo
     |  https://github.com/thp/linux-minidisc
     |
     v
```

Ideally all those changes will eventually find their way back into the
upstream repo, but for now, this faster-moving branch is where it's at.

README of the vuori fork is [here](README.vuori).
Original README of upstream is [here](README).


## Meson Build System

There is now support for the [Meson Build System](https://mesonbuild.com/),
which is a bit more flexible and modern than the old qmake (for libs, CLI).

Care was taken so that the old `qmake`-based system still works if needed.

Building with Meson is simple, it always builds out-of-source-tree (here,
`build` is used as the build folder, and `ninja` is the build system):

```
meson builddir
ninja -C builddir
```

To build `libnetmd` and `libhimd` as static libraries (e.g. so that
`netmdcli` and `himdcli` can be used standalone):

```
meson builddir -Ddefault_library=static
ninja -C builddir
```

As part of this modification, the `libnetmd` public headers do not depend
on `libusb.h` directly anymore, which helps keep things modular.

The build dependencies are now much cleaner, and Meson's dependency system
is used, which on Linux uses `pkg-config` for everything by default, which
works fine on modern distros.


## Linux NetMD Permissions

The udev rules file for Linux (so users in the "plugdev" group will have
access to NetMD devices without requiring root) is now installed in the
right place automatically when using the Meson build system.

The HAL file (`netmd/etc/20-netmd.fdi`) was removed without replacement,
as HAL is deprecated in Linux for more than 10 years now.


## libusbmd: Central VID/PID database

A new library "libusbmd" contains the central database for both NetMD and
Hi-MD USB device IDs. It provides a simple C API for querying all entries
as well as identifying a device given a VID and PID.

The CLI tools (`netmdcli` and `himdcli`) now each have a `usbids` sub-command
that will query `libusbmd` for the specific device IDs and output them as
JSON (VID and PID as decimal, as JSON doesn't support hex literals).

QHiMDTransfer now also uses `libusbmd` for identifying devices.

The database is embedded in `libusbmd` and generated from `devicedb/minidisc.devids`.

Commit message:

Document the two other patches in this branch

README.md, after:

# minidisc-ffwd: friendly fork, wip development

A friendly fork of `linux-minidisc` to more freely experiment
with things with less friction while eventually getting most
changes merged back into the upstream repository.

[Upstream](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Upstream_(software_development)) repos and relationships:

```
    (o) Original Upstream Repo ("upstream")
     |  https://github.com/linux-minidisc/linux-minidisc
     |
    (o) NetMD fixes by vuori (upstream PR#62)
     |  https://github.com/vuori/linux-minidisc
     |
    (o) Downstream repo w/ fixes, used by Platium MD (upstream PR#82)
     |  https://github.com/gavinbenda/linux-minidisc
     |
  > (o) This Repo
     |  https://github.com/thp/linux-minidisc
     |
     v
```

Ideally all those changes will eventually find their way back into the
upstream repo, but for now, this faster-moving branch is where it's at.

README of the vuori fork is [here](README.vuori).
Original README of upstream is [here](README).


## NetMD Download Support for QHiMDTransfer

Now that `netmd_send_track()` exists in `libnetmd`, we can call it from
QHiMDTransfer to download tracks to the device. This accepts the same
file formats as Platinum MD, namely 44.1 kHz 16-bit stereo WAV files for
SP download or ATRAC LP2/LP4 data stored in a WAV container for direct
LP2/LP4 download.


## Track Duration Fix

`libnetmd` returned the wrong duration for tracks > 1 hour, because the
"hour" item of the response wasn't take into account (so e.g. a 68-minute
track would show up as an 8-minute track). This is fixed now, and the
`struct netmd_track`'s `minute` can now be >= 60.


## Meson Build System

There is now support for the [Meson Build System](https://mesonbuild.com/),
which is a bit more flexible and modern than the old qmake (for libs, CLI).

Care was taken so that the old `qmake`-based system still works if needed.

Building with Meson is simple, it always builds out-of-source-tree (here,
`build` is used as the build folder, and `ninja` is the build system):

```
meson builddir
ninja -C builddir
```

To build `libnetmd` and `libhimd` as static libraries (e.g. so that
`netmdcli` and `himdcli` can be used standalone):

```
meson builddir -Ddefault_library=static
ninja -C builddir
```

As part of this modification, the `libnetmd` public headers do not depend
on `libusb.h` directly anymore, which helps keep things modular.

The build dependencies are now much cleaner, and Meson's dependency system
is used, which on Linux uses `pkg-config` for everything by default, which
works fine on modern distros.


## Linux NetMD Permissions

The udev rules file for Linux (so users in the "plugdev" group will have
access to NetMD devices without requiring root) is now installed in the
right place automatically when using the Meson build system.

The HAL file (`netmd/etc/20-netmd.fdi`) was removed without replacement,
as HAL is deprecated in Linux for more than 10 years now.


## libusbmd: Central VID/PID database

A new library "libusbmd" contains the central database for both NetMD and
Hi-MD USB device IDs. It provides a simple C API for querying all entries
as well as identifying a device given a VID and PID.

The CLI tools (`netmdcli` and `himdcli`) now each have a `usbids` sub-command
that will query `libusbmd` for the specific device IDs and output them as
JSON (VID and PID as decimal, as JSON doesn't support hex literals).

QHiMDTransfer now also uses `libusbmd` for identifying devices.

The database is embedded in `libusbmd` and generated from `devicedb/minidisc.devids`.
