\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH QHIMDTRANSFER 1 "November 23, 2012"
.SH NAME
qhimdtransfer \- Transfer software for MiniDisc devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qhimdtransfer
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBqhimdtransfer\fP is a graphical user interface application for 
accessing HiMD Walkman. It uses the libhimd library to read and write
audio tracks from a HiMD filesystem which can be mounted directly from
a physical HiMD Walkman or a previously created image file of a HiMD.
By choosing "Connect" in the file menu, the mount point of the HiMD
filesystem is located and the track listing is consequently loaded
into the application into the track list viewer on the left-hand
side.

To upload a track (transfer it to the PC), select the tracks to be
transferred in the track list window. Then choose the destination
directory in the file browser on the right-hand side and click
the onto the upload button (white arrow on red background). To
download tracks to the device, select the tracks to be downloaded
in the file browser and click onto the download button (white
arrow on green background).

Currently libhimd and therefore \fBqhimdtransfer\fP implements full read access
for PCM, ATRAC-3+ and MP3 tracks as well as experimental write support
for MP3 tracks (MP3 playback is supported by second and third generation
of HiMD Walkman only). Non-MP3 tracks are protected by Sony's DRM
software stack OpenMG, which require a sophisticated calculation of
keys and access control lists. Writing of non-MP3 tracks is therefore
currently not yet supported.

Please note that some of the functions in the graphical user interface
like deleting or renaming tracks or formatting the medium are not yet
implemented, but work is currently in progress to achieve that.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR netmdcli (1),
.IR himdcli (1)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
The linux-minidisc project - <https://wiki.physik.fu-berlin.de/linux-minidisc>.
.PP
This manual page was written by John Paul Adrian Glaubitz <glaubitz@physik.fu-berlin.de>.
